Adding an experimental features page (#3638)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/experimental-features.md

---
title: "Preview new and experimental features in dbt Cloud"
id: "experimental-features"
sidebar_label: "Preview new dbt Cloud features"
description: "Gain early access to many new dbt Labs experimental features by enabling this in your profile."
---

> dbt Labs often beta tests features before deciding to continue on the [Product lifecycle](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Labs often tests experimental features before deciding to continue on the [Product lifecycle](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud).
```

> You can access experimental features if you want to preview beta features that haven’t yet been released to dbt Cloud. You can toggle on or off all experimental beta features in one place. As with other beta features, these features:

Reviewer: I think we have to be careful about using both `experimental` and `beta` in this doc.
Experimental elicits the feeling that the feature is something we're messing around with but may never see the light of day.
Beta generally means a feature we're committed to but it's in the early stages of the lifecycle. 
I'm not sure we should use them interchangeably in the doc, even if that's what it is, as it kind of sends mixed messages.

Reviewer: Maybe `alpha` would be a better term than `beta` for this doc. What are your thoughts @runleonarun?

> You can access experimental features if you want to preview beta features that haven’t yet been released to dbt Cloud. You can toggle on or off all experimental beta features in one place. As with other beta features, these features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access experimental features to preview beta features that haven’t yet been released to dbt Cloud. You can toggle on or off all experimental features in your Profile settings. Experimental features:
```

- May not be feature-complete or fully stable as we’re actively developing them.

> - Could be discontinued at any time.

Reviewer: Will they receive messaging about this in dbt Cloud if they have projects using these features? Maybe we should call that out.

Author: It sounds like eventually this will be the case but not with this initial launch. Here's info from @GideonShils 
> The plan is to design some new graphic (beta tag, etc) that will show a feature is not fully polished. Not sure that all features will have this necessarily though. Eventually we’ll list our features under the toggle too

> - May require feedback from you to understand their limitations or impact. Each experimental feature collects feedback directly in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: May help adoption to understand how we pick what moves forward in the dev process.  In a future iteration of this doc a "Giving feedback" section would be useful. 
```suggestion
- May require feedback from you to understand their limitations or impact. Each experimental feature collects feedback directly in dbt Cloud, which may impact dbt Labs' decisions to implement. 
```

> - May have limited technical support and be excluded from our Support SLAs.

Author: @barberscott Is this correct?

- May not have public documentation available.

To enable or disable experimental features:

> 1. Navigate to Your Profile settings by clicking the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Profile settings** by clicking the gear icon in the top right.
```

> 2. Find Experimental features at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: Navigating to Profile settings brings the user to the "Your profile" page. Is this the page this line refers to?

> 2. Find Experimental features at the bottom of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Find Experimental features at the bottom of Your Profile page.
```

> 3. Click **Beta** to toggle the features on or off as shown in the following image.

Reviewer: Is this going to be the only way to access ANY beta feature in dbt Cloud moving forward? If it's betas related to only particular areas we may need to call that out.

Author: @matthewshaver  I think will still be using feature flags, but you bring up a good potential point of confusion.  

@GideonShils Will this be the way to opt-in to all beta features with this 1st iteration? and could they be in all areas of the product?

Reviewer 2: Not all features will necessarily go through the experimental features flow. This is a new space for us, so the details on how exactly this will be used aren't fully worked out quite yet 😄.  For some features, we may do a more "private" beta where we reach out to customers directly, but this opens up the _option_ for shipping to a more "opted in" set of users instead. It's up to the devs / product owners how they want to ship their specific feature.
